>> Kyle Simpson: Any
questions about monads?
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: You said that the identity
here was kind of a cheat.
How would you get the value out?
>> Kyle Simpson: You don't
really get the value out.
You just keep making more monads that do
whatever you need them to do with it.
It's kind of like how in function calls,
you don't,
until the very end,
do your side effect and cheat.
So it's like everything is a monad
that makes another monad that makes
another monad.
And then at the very end, you do your
side effect and your cheat, right?
That's basically why I'm doing it
here at the very end, to show you.
The line 25 is a violation
of the monadic laws.
But it's also the end of our operation,
so it doesn't matter.
It's okay if we go ahead and pull it out.
Everything else above it
is behaving by those laws.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
just to make sure we're clear.
The reason line 25 is a violation of the
monadic law is because .chain has to be
called with a monad returning function.
An identity is not a monad
returning function,
at least not necessarily
a monad returning function.
That's why it's a violation of law.
>> Speaker 3: Is the Monad, is that
a mathematical thing that you could
go study the actual mathematics of it?
That-
>> Kyle Simpson: There is absolutely math
behind monads, yes.
>> Speaker 3: And it's actually
called a monad in mathematics?
Or was that a name that they
made up in programming?
Is that name underlined-
>> Kyle Simpson: The question that you're
asking is a little interesting because
the evolution of the programming and
the evolution of the math,
at least from my perspective,
seem to have been cojoined.
So I'm not sure that it matters that it
was first in math or first in programming.
But there is mathematic principles
underlying the concept of a monad.
So you can't have invented the programming
without the math having first been there.
>> Speaker 3: Right, but
it's not called a monad in mathematics.
What the monad is and
the mathematics that it's built on,
that's not what it's
called in mathematics.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's kinda like saying
it's not called a functioning method.
It is called a function, but
it doesn't really matter what it's called.
What matters is what it does.
So the laws of category theory and
all of that that give us a monad,
those are valid math.
And we realize them in programming
using some programming language's
particular syntax.
>> Speaker 3: Right,
what did you just say?
What kind of math?
You just said the-
>> Kyle Simpson: There's a broader type of
math that underlies a lot
of functional programming.
There's actually more than one,
but category theory.
>> Speaker 3: Category theory.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
I'm way beyond my depth here, right?
But category theory is essentially how we
describe all of these different kinds of
behaviors.
And each different thing is some mixture
of other different kinds of things.
So what category does it fit into?